Player Drills
Phase 1 Stationary
Wooden’s Jump Shot Drill: Start in the middle of the three-second area in your shooting stance without a ball.
Shoot a jump shot. Land, prepare to shoot, and repeat. Shoot 25. Visualize making each shot. Form Shooting
Three in a row Shooting Drill: Start in front of the basket in your shooting stance. Make three shots in a row and
take one large step backward. Youth players make nine shots in a row; varsity high school players make 15 shots in a
row. Start at the beginning when you miss. Form Shooting; Section 1
Three Swishes Drill: Start in front of the basket in your shooting stance. Swish three shots in a row and take one
large step backward. If you make a basket, but not a swish, remain at the current spot. Start at the beginning when
you miss. Work to the free throw line. Form Shooting; Section 1
<ol>Mike Bibby Pull-up Jump Shot Series
• Right Side Bibby over-the-Top: Start on the right side of the court near half-court. Speed dribble with
your left hand; near the three-point line, switch to a protect dribble and shuffle with the ball in your left
hand and body open to the court. At the free-throw-line extended, hesitate with a quick in-n-out dribble and
dribble with your left hand to the middle of the floor. Stop near the elbow and shoot. Off-the-Dribble;
Section 2C
• Right Side Bibby Crossover: Start on the right side of the court near half-court. Speed dribble with your
left hand; near the three-point line, switch to a protect dribble and shuffle with the ball in your left hand and
body open to the court. At the free-throw-line extended, hesitate and crossover. Attack toward the basket
with your right hand for one to two dribbles, stop 10-15 feet from the basket, and shoot. Off-the-Dribble;
Section 4C
• Left Side Bibby over-the-Top: Start on the left side of the court near half-court. Speed dribble with your
right hand; near the three-point line, switch to a protect dribble and shuffle with the ball in your right hand
and body open to the court. At the free-throw-line extended, hesitate with a quick in-n-out dribble and
dribble with your right hand to the middle of the floor. Stop near the elbow and shoot. Off-the-Dribble;
Section 3C
• Left Side Bibby Crossover: Start on the left side of the court near half-court. Speed dribble with your right
hand; near the three-point line, switch to a protect dribble and shuffle with the ball in your right hand and
body open to the court. At the free-throw-line extended, hesitate and crossover. Attack toward the basket
with your left hand for one to two dribbles, stop 10- 15 feet from the basket, and shoot. Off-the-Dribble;
Section 5C
Full Court Pull-ups Shooting Drill: Dribble the length of the floor and pull up for jump shots 10-15 feet from the
basket at various angles. Use both hands to dribble. Off-the-Dribble, Section C
Direct Drive One-Dribble Pull-ups (left pivot): Start at the top of the key; dribble once toward the basket and
shoot. Use the left foot as the pivot foot; make a direct drive and dribble with your right hand. Off-the-Dribble;
Section 1C