Player Drills
Phase 1 Stationary
Wooden’s Jump Shot Drill: Start in the middle of the three-second area in your shooting stance without a ball.
Shoot a jump shot. Land, prepare to shoot, and repeat. Shoot 25. Visualize making each shot. Form Shooting
Three in a row Shooting Drill: Start in front of the basket in your shooting stance. Make three shots in a row and
take one large step backward. Youth players make nine shots in a row; varsity high school players make 15 shots in a
row. Start at the beginning when you miss. Form Shooting; Section 1
Three Swishes Drill: Start in front of the basket in your shooting stance. Swish three shots in a row and take one
large step backward. If you make a basket, but not a swish, remain at the current spot. Start at the beginning when
you miss. Work to the free throw line. Form Shooting; Section 1
Nowitski Shooting Drill: Start in the middle of the three-second area in your shooting stance. Bend into a full squat,
extend, and shoot. Make 10. Form Shooting; Section 1B
3x5 Step-in Shooting Drill: Start in the middle of the three-second area in your shooting stance. A coach or
teammate starts under the basket with a ball; this person rebounds and passes. Start with one leg forward and step in
to each shot. Make five in a row with the right leg forward and five in a row with the left leg forward. Take one large
step backward and repeat. Shoot from three spots. Form Shooting; Section 1
15 Shooting Drill: Start in the middle of the three-second area in your shooting stance. A coach or teammate starts
under the basket with a ball; this person rebounds and passes. Make five straight jump shots. After five straight, take
one large step backward. Make 15 straight jump shots. Start at the beginning when you miss. Shoot for 2 minutes. Catch-and-
Shoot; Section 1
Slide Shooting Drill: Start at one elbow in your shooting stance and shuffle to the other elbow. A coach or
teammate starts under the basket with a ball; this person rebounds and passes. As you shuffle, the coach/teammate
passes. Catch and shoot. Finish your shot, bend into your shooting stance and shuffle to the other elbow for a shot.
Make 6. Catch-and-Shoot; Section C
Arc Slide Shooting Drill: Start in your shooting stance on the baseline about 15-feet from the basket. A coach or
teammate starts under the basket with a ball; this person rebounds and passes. As you shuffle, the coach/teammate
passes. Catch and shoot. Finish your shot, bend into your shooting stance and shuffle. Work from baseline to
baseline and back. Catch-and-Shoot; Section C
5x5 Shooting Drill: Start in your shooting stance on the baseline about 15-feet from the basket. A coach or
teammate starts under the basket with a ball; this person rebounds and passes. When your coach/teammate passes,
catch and shoot. Make five shots from the right baseline and move to the right wing, then the free throw line, left
wing, and left baseline, making five shots from each spot or 25 total. Catch-and-Shoot; Section C
3-Point Arc Slide Shooting Drill: Start in your shooting stance on the baseline outside the three-point line. A coach
or teammate starts under the basket with a ball; this person rebounds and passes. As you shuffle, the coach/teammate
passes. Catch and shoot. Finish your shot, bend into your shooting stance and shuffle. Work from baseline to
baseline and back. Catch-and-Shoot; Section E
3-Point 5x5 Shooting Drill: Start in your shooting stance on the baseline outside the three-point line. A coach or
teammate starts under the basket with a ball; this person rebounds and passes. When your coach/teammate passes,
catch and shoot. Make five shots from the right baseline and move to the right wing, then the free throw line, left
wing, and left baseline, making five shots from each spot or 25 total. Catch-and-Shoot; Section E
Phase 2 Movement
Straight-line Shooting: Start between half-court and the free throw line, run to the free throw line, catch, and shoot.
A coach or teammate starts under the basket with a ball and passes. Make five shots. When working in pairs,
alternate shots; shoot, rebound your own shot, and pass to your partner before running to the starting point to begin
the next repetition. Catch-and-Shoot; Section 1C
3-Point Straight-line Shooting: Start at half-court, run to the top of the key, catch, and shoot. A coach or teammate
starts under the basket with a ball and passes. Make five shots. When working in pairs, alternate shots; shoot,
rebound your own shot, and pass to your partner before running to the starting point to begin the next repetition.
Catch-and-Shoot; Section 1E
Right Wing Straight-line Shooting: Start at the hash mark on the right sideline, run toward the basket, catch about
15-feet from the basket, and shoot. A coach or teammate starts under the basket with a ball and passes. Make five
shots. When working in pairs, alternate shots; shoot, rebound your own shot, and pass to your partner before running
to the starting point to begin the next repetition. Catch-and-Shoot; Section 4C
Left Wing Straight-line Shooting: Start at the hash mark on the left sideline, run toward the basket, catch about 15-
feet from the basket, and shoot. A coach or teammate starts under the basket with a ball and passes. Make five shots.
When working in pairs, alternate shots; shoot, rebound your own shot, and pass to your partner before running to the
starting point to begin the next repetition. Catch-and-Shoot; Section 5C
Right Wing 3-Point Straight-line Shooting: Start at the hash mark on the right sideline, run toward the basket,
catch at the three-point line, and shoot. A coach or teammate starts under the basket with a ball and passes. Make
five shots. When working in pairs, alternate shots; shoot, rebound your own shot, and pass to your partner before
running to the starting point to begin the next repetition. Catch-and-Shoot; Section 4E
Left Wing 3-Point Straight-line Shooting: Start at the hash mark on the left sideline, run toward the basket, catch
at the three-point line, and shoot. A coach or teammate starts under the basket with a ball and passes. Make five
shots. When working in pairs, alternate shots; shoot, rebound your own shot, and pass to your partner before running
to the starting point to begin the next repetition. Catch-and-Shoot; Section 5E
Right Elbow Straight-line Shooting: Start near the right sideline, run toward the basket, catch at the elbow, and
shoot. A coach or teammate starts under the basket with a ball and passes. Make five shots. When working in pairs,
alternate shots; shoot, rebound your own shot, and pass to your partner before running to the starting point to begin
the next repetition. Catch-and-Shoot; Section 2C
Left Elbow Straight-line Shooting: Start near the left sideline, run toward the basket, catch at the elbow, and shoot.
A coach or teammate starts under the basket with a ball and passes. Make five shots. When working in pairs,
alternate shots; shoot, rebound your own shot, and pass to your partner before running to the starting point to begin
the next repetition. Catch-and-Shoot; Section 3C
Right Elbow 3-Point Straight-line Shooting: Start near the right sideline, run toward the right elbow, catch at the
three-point line beyond the elbow, and shoot. A coach or teammate starts under the basket with a ball and passes.
Make five shots. When working in pairs, alternate shots; shoot, rebound your own shot, and pass to your partner
before running to the starting point to begin the next repetition. Catch-and-Shoot; Section 2E
Left Elbow 3-Point Straight-line Shooting: Start near the left sideline, run toward the left elbow, catch at the threepoint
line beyond the elbow, and shoot. A coach or teammate starts under the basket with a ball and passes. Make
five shots. When working in pairs, alternate shots; shoot, rebound your own shot, and pass to your partner before
running to the starting point to begin the next repetition. Catch-and-Shoot; Section 3E
Elbow-to-Elbow Curl Shooting Drill: Start at one elbow and run to the other elbow by tracing the half-circle above
the free throw line. A coach or teammate starts under the basket with a ball; this person rebounds and passes. When
your coach/teammate passes, catch and shoot. Make five shots. Catch-and-Shoot; Section C
Right Corner Curls Shooting Drill: Start in the right corner. A coach or teammate starts at the left elbow with a
ball; this person rebounds and passes. Curl to the right elbow; when your coach/teammate passes, catch and shoot.
Make five shots. Jog to the corner and repeat. Catch-and-Shoot; Section 2C
Left Corner Curls Shooting Drill: Start in the left corner. A coach or teammate starts at the right elbow with a
ball; this person rebounds and passes. Curl to the left elbow; when your coach/teammate passes, catch and shoot.
Make five shots. Jog to the corner and repeat. Catch-and-Shoot; Section 3C
3-Point Right Corner Curls Shooting Drill: Start in the right corner. A coach or teammate starts at the left elbow
with a ball; this person rebounds and passes. Curl to the three-point line above the right elbow; when your coach/
teammate passes, catch and shoot. Make five shots. Jog to the corner and repeat. Catch-and-Shoot; Section 2E
3-Point Left Corner Curls Shooting Drill: Start in the left corner. A coach or teammate starts at the right elbow
with a ball; this person rebounds and passes. Curl to the three-point line above the left elbow; when your coach/
teammate passes, catch and shoot. Make five shots. Jog to the corner and repeat. Catch-and-Shoot; Section 3E
Five-Spot Shooting Drill: Start in your shooting stance on the baseline about 15-feet from the basket. A coach or
teammate starts under the basket with a ball; this person rebounds and passes. When your coach/teammate passes,
catch and shoot. Make the shot from the baseline and cut to the right wing; make a shot at the right wing, and cut to
the free-throw line, then the left wing, and left corner. Make one shot and move to the next spot. After the first shot,
make two in a row in the corners. Make 10. Catch-and-Shoot; Section C
3-point Five-Spot Shooting Drill: Start in your shooting stance on the baseline behind the three-point line. A coach
or teammate starts under the basket with a ball; this person rebounds and passes. When your coach/teammate passes,
catch and shoot. Make the shot from the baseline and cut to the right wing; make a shot at the right wing, and cut to
the free-throw line, then the left wing, and left corner. Make one shot and move to the next spot. After the first shot,
make two in a row in the corners. Make 10. Catch-and-Shoot; Section E
Phase 3 Dribble
Two-Dribble Pull-ups Shooting Drill (right hand): Start beyond the three-point line and dribble twice with your
right hand to get to the free throw line. Stop and shoot. Rebound your shot. Make five shots. Off-the-Dribble;
Section 1C
Two-Dribble Pull-ups Shooting Drill (left hand): Start beyond the three-point line and dribble twice with your left
hand to get to the free throw line. Stop and shoot. Rebound your shot. Make five shots. Off-the-Dribble; Section 1C
3-Point Two-Dribble Pull-ups Shooting Drill (right hand): Start near half-court and dribble twice with your right
hand to get to the three-point line. Stop and shoot. Rebound your shot. Make five shots. Off-the-Dribble; Section 1E
3-Point Two-Dribble Pull-ups Shooting Drill (left hand): Start near half-court and dribble twice with your left
hand to get to the three-point line. Stop and shoot. Rebound your shot. Make five shots. Off-the-Dribble; Section 1E
Right Wing Two-Dribble Pull-ups Shooting Drill (right hand): Start beyond the three-point line on the right wing
and dribble twice with your right hand. Stop between 10 and 15 feet from the basket and shoot. Rebound your shot.
Make five shots. Off-the-Dribble; Section 4C
Left Wing Two-Dribble Pull-ups Shooting Drill (left hand): Start beyond the three-point line on the left wing and
dribble twice with left right hand. Stop between 10 and 15 feet from the basket and shoot. Rebound your shot. Make
five shots. Off-the-Dribble; Section 5C
3-Point Right Wing Two-Dribble Pull-ups Shooting Drill (right hand): Start near the sideline on the right wing
and dribble twice with your right hand. Stop behind the three-point line and shoot. Rebound your shot. Make five
shots. Off-the-Dribble; Section 4E
3-Point Left Wing Two-Dribble Pull-ups Shooting Drill (left hand): Start near the sideline on the left wing and
dribble twice with your left hand. Stop behind the three-point line and shoot. Rebound your shot. Make five shots.
Off-the-Dribble; Section 5E
Right Elbow Two-Dribble Pull-ups Shooting Drill (left hand): Start beyond the three-point line on the right wing
and dribble twice with your left hand. Stop at the right elbow and shoot. Rebound your shot. Make five shots. Offthe-
Dribble; Section 2C
Left Elbow Two-Dribble Pull-ups Shooting Drill (right hand): Start beyond the three-point line on the left wing
and dribble twice with your right hand. Stop at the left elbow and shoot. Rebound your shot. Make five shots. Offthe-
Dribble; Section 3C
3-Point Right Elbow Two-Dribble Pull-ups Shooting Drill (left hand): Start near the sideline on the right wing
and dribble twice with your left hand toward the right elbow. Stop behind the three-point line and shoot. Rebound
your shot. Make five shots. Off-the-Dribble; Section 2E
3-Point Left Elbow Two-Dribble Pull-ups Shooting Drill (right hand): Start near the sideline on the right wing
and dribble twice with your left hand toward the right elbow. Stop behind the three-point line and shoot. Rebound
your shot. Make five shots. Off-the-Dribble; Section 3E
<ol>Mike Bibby Pull-up Jump Shot Series
• Right Side Bibby over-the-Top: Start on the right side of the court near half-court. Speed dribble with
your left hand; near the three-point line, switch to a protect dribble and shuffle with the ball in your left
hand and body open to the court. At the free-throw-line extended, hesitate with a quick in-n-out dribble and
dribble with your left hand to the middle of the floor. Stop near the elbow and shoot. Off-the-Dribble;
Section 2C
• Right Side Bibby Crossover: Start on the right side of the court near half-court. Speed dribble with your
left hand; near the three-point line, switch to a protect dribble and shuffle with the ball in your left hand and
body open to the court. At the free-throw-line extended, hesitate and crossover. Attack toward the basket
with your right hand for one to two dribbles, stop 10-15 feet from the basket, and shoot. Off-the-Dribble;
Section 4C
• Left Side Bibby over-the-Top: Start on the left side of the court near half-court. Speed dribble with your
right hand; near the three-point line, switch to a protect dribble and shuffle with the ball in your right hand
and body open to the court. At the free-throw-line extended, hesitate with a quick in-n-out dribble and
dribble with your right hand to the middle of the floor. Stop near the elbow and shoot. Off-the-Dribble;
Section 3C
• Left Side Bibby Crossover: Start on the left side of the court near half-court. Speed dribble with your right
hand; near the three-point line, switch to a protect dribble and shuffle with the ball in your right hand and
body open to the court. At the free-throw-line extended, hesitate and crossover. Attack toward the basket
with your left hand for one to two dribbles, stop 10- 15 feet from the basket, and shoot. Off-the-Dribble;
Section 5C
Full Court Pull-ups Shooting Drill: Dribble the length of the floor and pull up for jump shots 10-15 feet from the
basket at various angles. Use both hands to dribble. Off-the-Dribble, Section C
Direct Drive One-Dribble Pull-ups (left pivot): Start at the top of the key; dribble once toward the basket and
shoot. Use the left foot as the pivot foot; make a direct drive and dribble with your right hand. Off-the-Dribble;
Section 1C
Crossover Drive One-Dribble Pull-ups (left pivot): Start at the top of the key; dribble once toward the basket
toward the basket and shoot. Use the left foot as the pivot foot; make a crossover drive and dribble with your left
hand. Off-the-Dribble; Section 1C
Direct Drive One-Dribble Pull-ups (right pivot): Start at the top of the key; dribble once toward the basket and
shoot. Use the right foot as the pivot foot; make a direct drive and dribble with the left hand. Off-the-Dribble;
Section 1C
Crossover Drive One-Dribble Pull-ups (right pivot): Start at the top of the key; dribble once toward the basket
and shoot. Use the right foot as the pivot foot; make a crossover drive and dribble with the right hand. Off-the-
Dribble; Section 1C
Right Wing Direct Drive One-Dribble Pull-ups (left pivot): Start on the right wing at a 45-degree angle; dribble
once toward the basket and shoot. Use the left foot as the pivot foot; make a direct drive and dribble with your right
hand. Off-the-Dribble; Section 4C
Right Wing Crossover Drive One-Dribble Pull-ups (left pivot): Start on the right wing at a 45-degree angle;
dribble once toward the basket toward the basket and shoot. Use the left foot as the pivot foot; make a crossover
drive and dribble with your left hand. Off-the-Dribble; Section 2D
Right Wing Direct Drive One-Dribble Pull-ups (right pivot): Start on the right wing at a 45-degree angle; dribble
once toward the basket and shoot. Use the right foot as the pivot foot; make a direct drive and dribble with the left
hand. Off-the-Dribble; Section 2C
Right Wing Crossover Drive One-Dribble Pull-ups (right pivot): Start on the right wing at a 45-degree angle;
dribble once toward the basket and shoot. Use the right foot as the pivot foot; make a crossover drive and dribble
with the right hand. Off-the-Dribble; Section 4D
Left Wing Direct Drive One-Dribble Pull-ups (left pivot): Start on the left wing at a 45-degree angle; dribble
once toward the basket and shoot. Use the left foot as the pivot foot; make a direct drive and dribble with your right
hand. Off-the-Dribble; Section 3C
Left Wing Crossover Drive One-Dribble Pull-ups (left pivot): Start on the left wing at a 45-degree angle; dribble
once toward the basket toward the basket and shoot. Use the left foot as the pivot foot; make a crossover drive and
dribble with your left hand. Off-the-Dribble; Section 5D
Left Wing Direct Drive One-Dribble Pull-ups (right pivot): Start on the left wing at a 45-degree angle; dribble
once toward the basket and shoot. Use the right foot as the pivot foot; make a direct drive and dribble with the left
hand. Off-the-Dribble; Section 5C
Left Wing Crossover Drive One-Dribble Pull-ups (right pivot): Start on the left wing at a 45-degree angle;
dribble once toward the basket and shoot. Use the right foot as the pivot foot; make a crossover drive and dribble
with the right hand. Off-the-Dribble; Section 3D
Right Corner Direct Drive One-Dribble Pull-ups (left pivot): Start in the right corner; dribble once toward the
basket and shoot. Use the left foot as the pivot foot; make a direct drive and dribble with your right hand. Off-the-
Dribble; Section 6C
Right Corner Crossover Drive One-Dribble Pull-ups (left pivot): Start in the right corner; dribble once toward
the basket toward the basket and shoot. Use the left foot as the pivot foot; make a crossover drive and dribble with
your left hand. Off-the-Dribble; Section 6D
Right Corner Direct Drive One-Dribble Pull-ups (right pivot): Start in the right corner; dribble once toward the
basket and shoot. Use the right foot as the pivot foot; make a direct drive and dribble with the left hand. Off-the-
Dribble; Section 6C
Right Corner Crossover Drive One-Dribble Pull-ups (right pivot): Start in the right corner; dribble once toward
the basket and shoot. Use the right foot as the pivot foot; make a crossover drive and dribble with the right hand.
Off-the-Dribble; Section 6D
Left Corner Direct Drive One-Dribble Pull-ups (left pivot): Start in the left corner; dribble once toward the
basket and shoot. Use the left foot as the pivot foot; make a direct drive and dribble with your right hand. Off-the-
Dribble; Section 7C
Left Corner Crossover Drive One-Dribble Pull-ups (left pivot): Start in the left corner; dribble once toward the
basket toward the basket and shoot. Use the left foot as the pivot foot; make a crossover drive and dribble with your
left hand. Off-the-Dribble; Section 7D
Left Corner Direct Drive One-Dribble Pull-ups (right pivot): Start in the left corner; dribble once toward the
basket and shoot. Use the right foot as the pivot foot; make a direct drive and dribble with the left hand. Off-the-
Dribble; Section 7C
Left Corner Crossover Drive One-Dribble Pull-ups (right pivot): Start in the left corner; dribble once toward the
basket toward the basket and shoot. Use the left foot as the pivot foot; make a crossover drive and dribble with your
left hand. Off-the-Dribble; Section 7D
Arc Slide Right Hand One-Dribble Pull-ups: Start in your shooting stance on the baseline about 15-feet from the
basket. A coach or teammate starts under the basket with a ball; this person rebounds and passes. Shuffle around the
perimeter. As you shuffle, the coach/teammate passes. Catch, dribble once with your right hand toward the basket,
and shoot. Finish your shot, move back to 15-feet from the basket, bend into your shooting stance, and shuffle. Work
from baseline to baseline and back. Off-the-Dribble; Section B
Arc Slide Left Hand One-Dribble Pull-ups: Start in your shooting stance on the baseline about 15-feet from the
basket. A coach or teammate starts under the basket with a ball; this person rebounds and passes. Shuffle around the
perimeter. As you shuffle, your coach/teammate passes. Catch, dribble once with your left hand toward the basket,
and shoot. Finish your shot, move back to 15-feet from the basket, bend into your shooting stance, and shuffle. Work
from baseline to baseline and back. Off-the-Dribble; Section B
3-Point Arc Slide Right Hand One-Dribble Pull-ups: Start in your shooting stance on the baseline beyond the
three-point line. A coach or teammate starts under the basket with a ball; this person rebounds and passes. Shuffle
around the perimeter. As you shuffle, the coach/teammate passes. Catch, dribble once with your right hand toward
the basket, and shoot. Finish your shot, move back to the three-point line, bend into your shooting stance, and
shuffle. Work from baseline to baseline and back. Off-the-Dribble; Section D
3-Point Arc Slide Right Hand One-Dribble Pull-ups: Start in your shooting stance on the baseline beyond the
three-point line. A coach or teammate starts under the basket with a ball; this person rebounds and passes. Shuffle
around the perimeter. As you shuffle, the coach/teammate passes. Catch, dribble once with your left hand toward the
basket, and shoot. Finish your shot, move back to the three-point line, bend into your shooting stance, and shuffle.
Work from baseline to baseline and back. Off-the-Dribble Section D
30 Shooting Drill: Shoot from five spots on the floor with three shots in each series. The first shot in each series is
worth 3 points, second shot is worth 2 points and third shot is worth 1 point. Use both baselines, both wings, and the
top of the key. Start under the basket, sprint to the sideline, cut towards the basket, receive the pass at three-point
line and shoot. Return to the sideline and cut toward the basket. Catch at the three-point line, shot fake, dribble once,
and shoot. Return to the sideline and cut toward the basket. Catch at the three-point line, shot fake, dribble once, and
shoot a layup. Move to the next spot. Repeat from all five spots for a possible total of 30 points. Competition Drill
Pirates’ Shooting Drill: Player 1 (P1) shoots, and Player 2 (P2) rebounds and passes. Shoot for three minutes:
During the first minute, shoot mid-range shots off the catch worth 1 point per made shot; during the second minute,
shoot mid-range shots off the dribble worth 2 points; and during the third minute, shoot three-pointers off the catch
worth 3 points. P1 shoots five consecutive shots; after five shots, rotate. P2 shoots five shots and P1 rebounds and
passes. Catch on the move. No standing. Keep your own score; passer ensures that you rotate after five shots.
Compete individually against your partner, as a pair against other groups, or against a pre-determined goal.
Competition Drill
Open Court Moves Shooting Drill: Start at half court and combine open court offensive moves with pull-up jump
shots. Attack toward the basket, make a change of direction move around the three-point line, extend with your next
dribble, and shoot a short jump shot 5-10 feet from the basket. Off-the-Dribble; Section B
<ol>Sit-on-It Shooting Series
• Right Side Sit-on-It Baseline Drive Shooting Drill: Start on the right wing outside the three-point line
and dribble toward the baseline with your right hand. Stop with a hockey stop; square to the basket as you
stop, dribble behind your back, and shoot. Off-the-Dribble; Section 6C
• Right Side Sit-on-It Elbow Shooting Drill: Start on the right wing outside the three-point line and dribble
toward the elbow with your left hand. Stop with a hockey stop; square to the basket as you stop, dribble
behind your back, and shoot. Off-the-Dribble; Section 2C
• Left Side Sit-on-It Baseline Drive Shooting Drill: Start on the left wing outside the three-point line and
dribble toward the baseline with your left hand. Stop with a hockey stop; square to the basket as you stop,
dribble behind your back, and shoot. Off-the-Dribble; Section 7C
• Left Side Sit-on-It Elbow Shooting Drill: Start on the left wing outside the three-point line and dribble
toward the elbow with your right hand. Stop with a hockey stop; square to the basket as you stop, dribble
behind your back, and shoot. Off-the-Dribble; Section 3C
Logger Shooting Drill: Place 6-7 chairs randomly throughout the court, between the free-throw lines. Dribble from
end to end and make an open court move (hard crossover, hesitation, in-and-out, around-the-back or through-thelegs)
at a minimum of three chairs. Make 6 shots from the free throw line to complete the drill. Off-the-Dribble;
Section 1C
“If You Can Dodge a Wrench” Series: Start beyond the top of the key with the dribble. Attack toward the threepoint
line; make three consecutive offensive moves (with no extra dribble between the moves) and shoot. Off-the-
Dribble; Section 1C
Phase 4 Game Movement
<ol>Corner Curl Series
• Right Corner Curl: Start in the right corner. A coach or teammate starts at the left elbow with a ball; this
person rebounds and passes. Curl to the right elbow; when your coach/teammate passes, catch and shoot.
Make five shots. Jog to the corner and repeat. Catch-and-Shoot; Section 2C
• Right Corner Curl and Crossover Drive: Start in the right corner. A coach or teammate starts at the left
elbow with a ball; this person rebounds and passes. Curl to the right elbow; when your coach/teammate
passes, catch, crossover step, and dribble once with your right hand into a shot. Make five shots. Jog to the
corner and repeat. Off-the-Dribble; Section 2B
• Right Corner Curl and Run-Through: Start in the right corner. A coach or teammate starts at the left
elbow with a ball; this person rebounds and passes. Curl to the right elbow; when your coach/teammate
passes, run through the catch, use one left-handed dribble to separate, and shoot. Make five shots. Jog to the
corner and repeat. Off-the-Dribble; Section 1B
• Left Corner Curl: Start in the left corner. A coach or teammate starts at the right elbow with a ball; this
person rebounds and passes. Curl to the left elbow; when your coach/teammate passes, catch and shoot.
Make five shots. Jog to the corner and repeat. Make five shots. Jog to the corner and repeat. Catch-and-
Shoot; Section 3C
• Left Corner Curl and Crossover Drive: Start in the left corner. A coach or teammate starts at the right
elbow with a ball; this person rebounds and passes. Curl to the left elbow; when your coach/teammate
passes, catch, crossover step, and dribble once with your left hand into a shot. Make five shots. Jog to the
corner and repeat. Off-the-Dribble; Section 3D
• Left Corner Curl and Run-Through: Start in the left corner. A coach or teammate starts at the right
elbow with a ball; this person rebounds and passes. Curl to the left elbow; when your coach/teammate
passes, run through the catch, use one right-handed dribble to separate, and shoot. Make five shots. Jog to
the corner and repeat. Off-the-Dribble; Section 1C
<ol>3-point Corner Curl Series
• 3-point Right Corner Curl: Start in the right corner. A coach or teammate starts at the left elbow with a
ball; this person rebounds and passes. Curl to the three-point line above the right elbow; when your coach/
teammate passes, catch and shoot. Make five shots. Jog to the corner and repeat. Catch-and-Shoot; Section
2E
• 3-point Right Corner Curl and Crossover Drive: Start in the right corner. A coach or teammate starts at
the left elbow with a ball; this person rebounds and passes. Curl to the three-point line above the right
elbow; when your coach/teammate passes, catch, crossover step, and dribble once with your right hand into
a shot. Make five shots. Jog to the corner and repeat. Off-the-Dribble; Section 2D
• 3-point Right Corner Curl and Run-Through: Start in the right corner. A coach or teammate starts at the
left elbow with a ball; this person rebounds and passes. Curl to the three-point line above the right elbow;
when your coach/teammate passes, run through the catch, use one left-handed dribble to separate, and
shoot. Make five shots. Jog to the corner and repeat. Off-the-Dribble; Section 1C
• 3-point Left Corner Curl: Start in the left corner. A coach or teammate starts at the right elbow with a
ball; this person rebounds and passes. Curl to the three-point line above the left elbow; when your coach/
teammate passes, catch and shoot. Make five shots. Jog to the corner and repeat. Catch-and-Shoot; Section
3E
• 3-point Left Corner Curl and Crossover Drive: Start in the left corner. A coach or teammate starts at the
right elbow with a ball; this person rebounds and passes. Curl to the three-point line above the left elbow;
when your coach/teammate passes, catch, crossover step, and dribble once with your left hand into a shot.
Make five shots. Jog to the corner and repeat. Off-the-Dribble; Section 3D
• 3-point Left Corner Curl and Run-Through: Start in the left corner. A coach or teammate starts at the
right elbow with a ball; this person rebounds and passes. Curl to the three-point line above the left elbow;
when your coach/teammate passes, run through the catch, use one right-handed dribble to separate, and
shoot. Make five shots. Jog to the corner and repeat. Off-the-Dribble; Section 1C
Flex Shooting Series
• Flex Right Elbow Shot: Start at the right block. A coach or teammate starts at the left elbow with a ball;
this person rebounds and passes. Imagine setting a screen for the flex cutter. Cut to the right elbow, catch,
and shoot. Make five shots. Jog to the block and repeat. Catch-and-Shoot; Section 2C
• Flex Right Corner Fade: Start at the right block. A coach or teammate starts at the left elbow with a ball;
this person rebounds and passes. Imagine setting a screen for the flex cutter. Fake the cut to the right elbow,
fade to the corner, catch a skip pass, and shoot. Make five shots. Jog to the block and repeat. Catch-and-
Shoot; Section 6C
• Flex Left Elbow Shot: Start at the left block. A coach or teammate starts at the right elbow with a ball; this
person rebounds and passes. Imagine setting a screen for the flex cutter. Cut to the left elbow, catch, and
shoot. Make five shots. Jog to the block and repeat. Catch-and-Shoot; Section 3C
• Flex Left Corner Fade: Start at the left block. A coach or teammate starts at the right elbow with a ball;
this person rebounds and passes. Imagine setting a screen for the flex cutter. Fake the cut to the left elbow,
fade to the corner, catch a skip pass, and shoot. Make five shots. Jog to the block and repeat. Catch-and-
Shoot; Section 7C
Flex 3-Point Shooting Series
• Flex Right Side 3-point Shot: Start at the right block. A coach or teammate starts at the left elbow with a
ball; this person rebounds and passes. Imagine setting a screen for the flex cutter. Cut to the three-point line
beyond the right elbow, catch, and shoot. Make five shots. Jog to the block and repeat. Catch-and-Shoot;
Section 2E
• Flex Right Corner 3-point Fade: Start at the right block. A coach or teammate starts at the left elbow with
a ball; this person rebounds and passes. Imagine setting a screen for the flex cutter. Fake the cut to the right
elbow, fade to the corner outside the three-point line, catch a skip pass, and shoot. Make five shots. Jog to
the block and repeat. Catch-and-Shoot; Section 6E
• Flex Left Side 3-point Shot: Start at the left block. A coach or teammate starts at the right elbow with a
ball; this person rebounds and passes. Imagine setting a screen for the flex cutter. Cut to the three-point line
beyond the left elbow, catch, and shoot. Make five shots. Jog to the block and repeat. Catch-and-Shoot;
Section 3E
• Flex Left Corner Fade: Start at the left block. A coach or teammate starts at the right elbow with a ball;
this person rebounds and passes. Imagine setting a screen for the flex cutter. Fake the cut to the left elbow,
fade to the corner outside the three-point line, catch a skip pass, and shoot. Make five shots. Jog to the
block and repeat. Catch-and-Shoot; Section 7E
Right Wing America’s Play Shooting Drill: Start on the right block. A coach or teammate starts on the right wing
with a ball; this person rebounds and passes. Turn and set a cross screen in the middle of the key. Sprint to the top of
the key, catch and shoot. Repeat. Make four. Catch-and-Shoot; Section 1E
Left Wing America’s Play Shooting Drill: Start on the left block. A coach or teammate starts on the left wing with
a ball; this person rebounds and passes. Turn and set a cross screen in the middle of the key. Sprint to the top of the
key, catch and shoot. Repeat. Make four. Catch-and-Shoot; Section 1E
Right Wing America’s Play and Fade Shooting Drill: Start on the right block. A coach or teammate starts on the
right wing with the ball; this person rebounds and passes. Turn and set a cross screen in the middle of the key. Sprint
to the top of the key, catch, and shoot. After the shot, fade off a high flare screen toward the left wing outside the
three-point line, catch a skip pass and shoot. Repeat. Make four shots. Catch-and-Shoot; Section E
Left Wing America’s Play and Fade Shooting Drill: Start on the left block. A coach or teammate starts on the left
wing with the ball; this person rebounds and passes. Turn and set a cross screen in the middle of the key. Sprint to
the top of the key, catch, and shoot. After the shot, fade off a high flare screen toward the right wing outside the
three-point line, catch a skip pass and shoot. Repeat. Make four shots. Catch-and-Shoot; Section E
Right Side Two-Dribble Pull-up and Curl Shooting Drill: Start on the right wing outside the three-point line with
a ball. A coach or teammate starts on the right elbow with a second ball; this person rebounds and passes. Dribble
twice with your right hand, stop 10-15 feet from the basket, and shoot. Finish your shot, sprint to the basket, curl to
the left elbow, catch, and shoot. Make six shots. Off-the-Dribble and Catch-and-Shoot; Section C
Left Side Two-Dribble Pull-up and Curl Shooting Drill: Start on the left wing outside the three-point line with a
ball. A coach or teammate starts on the left elbow with a second ball; this person rebounds and passes. Dribble twice
with your left hand, stop 10-15 feet from the basket, and shoot. Finish your shot, sprint to the basket, curl to the right
elbow, catch, and shoot. Make six shots. Off-the-Dribble and Catch-and-Shoot; Section C
Right Side Three-Point Two-Dribble Pull-up and Curl Shooting Drill: Start on the right wing near the half-court
line with a ball. A coach or teammate starts on the right elbow with a second ball; this person rebounds and passes.
Dribble twice with your right hand, stop behind the three-point line, and shoot. Finish your shot, sprint to the basket,
curl beyond the three-point line on the left wing, catch, and shoot. Make six shots. Off-the-Dribble and Catch-and-
Shoot; Section E
Left Side Three-Point Two-Dribble Pull-up and Curl Shooting Drill: Start on the left wing near the half-court
line with a ball. A coach or teammate starts on the left elbow with a second ball; this person rebounds and passes.
Dribble twice with your left hand, stop behind the three-point line, and shoot. Finish your shot, sprint to the basket,
curl beyond the three-point line on the right wing, catch, and shoot. Make six shots. Off-the-Dribble and Catch-and-
Shoot; Section E
Right Side Two-Dribble Pull-up and Flare Shooting Drill: Start on the right wing outside the three-point line with
a ball. A coach or teammate starts on the right elbow with a second ball; this person rebounds and passes. Dribble
twice with your right hand, stop 10-15 feet from the basket, and shoot. Finish your shot, sprint to the basket, curl
toward the left elbow, stop and flare toward the left baseline; catch, and shoot. Make six shots. Off-the-Dribble and
Catch-and-Shoot; Section C
Left Side Two-Dribble Pull-up and Fade Shooting Drill: Start on the left wing outside the three-point line with a
ball. A coach or teammate starts on the left elbow with a second ball; this person rebounds and passes. Dribble twice
with your left hand, stop 10-15 feet from the basket, and shoot. Finish your shot, sprint to the basket, curl toward the
right elbow, stop and flare toward the left baseline; catch, and shoot. Make six shots. Off-the-Dribble and Catchand-
Shoot; Section C
Right Side Three-Point Two-Dribble Pull-up and Flare Shooting Drill: Start on the right wing outside the threepoint
line with a ball. A coach or teammate starts on the right elbow with a second ball; this person rebounds and
passes. Dribble twice with your right hand, stop behind the three-point line, and shoot. Finish your shot, sprint to the
basket, curl toward the left elbow, stop and flare to the left baseline beyond the three-point line; catch, and shoot.
Make six shots. Off-the-Dribble and Catch-and-Shoot; Section C
Left Side Three-Point Two-Dribble Pull-up and Fade Shooting Drill: Start on the left wing outside the threepoint
line with a ball. A coach or teammate starts on the left elbow with a second ball; this person rebounds and
passes. Dribble twice with your left hand, stop behind the three-point line, and shoot. Finish your shot, sprint to the
basket, curl toward the right elbow, stop and flare to the left baseline beyond the three-point line; catch, and shoot.
Make six shots. Off-the-Dribble and Catch-and-Shoot; Section C
16 Shooting Drill: Shoot from four spots (the baseline on either side and the wing/guard position on either side).
Move quickly from spot to spot. Never shoot at the baseline twice in a row. Shoot 16 shots (5 times around the arc).
Set a goal. Catch-and-Shoot; Section E
Team Drills
Phase 1 Stationary
Confidence Shooting Drill: Team stands in a line at the block. Each player shoots until the team makes 10 shots.
Next, shoot from the opposite block and make 10 shots. Next shoot from midway up the free throw line on both
sides and then the elbows. Finish with free throws. Form Shooting
Seven Free Throw Shooting Drill: Form a line behind the free throw line. One at a time, players shoot free throws.
When a player makes a shot, the player goes to the end of the line. When the player misses, he or she accumulates
points. When a player reaches 7 points, he or she is out. Every shot is worth one or more points. For the first shooter,
the shot is worth one; when the player makes the shot, the next shot, for the second shooter, is worth two points.
When the first shooter misses, he or she gets 1 point, and the subsequent shot is worth only one point. The final
player without 7 points is the winner. Form Shooting/Free Throws; Section 1C
5x8 Team Shooting Drill: Form teams with 4-5 players per team. P1 starts under the basket with the ball; P2 starts
in his or her shooting stance on the baseline about 15-feet from the basket with the players behind him or her. P1
passes to P2 who catches and shoots. P1 follows his or her pass to the end of the line, and P2 follows his or her shot
to become the next passer. As a team, make 8 shots from the right baseline; move the line to the right wing and make
8; next to the free throw line, the left wing, and the left baseline. Make 8 shots from each spot or 40 total. Catchand-
Shoot; Section C
3-Point 5x8 Shooting Drill: Form teams with 4-5 players per team. P1 starts under the basket with the ball; P2 starts
in his or her shooting stance on the baseline beyond the three-point line with the players behind him or her. P1
passes to P2 who catches and shoots. P1 follows his or her pass to the end of the line, and P2 follows his or her shot
to become the next passer. As a team, make 8 shots from the right baseline; move the line to the right wing and make
8; next to the free throw line, the left wing, and the left baseline. Make 8 shots from each spot or 40 total. Catchand-
Shoot; Section E
Oiler Shooting Drill (middle): Four players form a line at the top of the key; Player 1 (P1) does not have a ball, but
the others do. P1 sprints to the baseline, stops, pivots, and runs toward the line. P1 receives a pass from P2 with his
or her back to the basket in the three-second area. P1 pivots, shoots, and rebounds his or her shot. After P2 passes,
P2 sprints to the baseline, and completes the same drill as P1. Form Shooting; Section 1B
Oiler Shooting Drill (right wing): Four players form a line at the three-point line on the right wing; Player 1 (P1)
does not have a ball, but the others do. P1 sprints to the baseline, stops, pivots, and runs toward the line. P1 receives
a pass from P2 with his or her back to the basket at the right block. P1 pivots, shoots, and rebounds his or her shot.
After P2 passes, P2 sprints to the baseline, and completes the same drill as P1. Form Shooting; Section 4B
Oiler Shooting Drill (left wing): Four players form a line at the three-point line on the left wing; Player 1 (P1) does
not have a ball, but the others do. P1 sprints to the baseline, stops, pivots, and runs toward the line. P1 receives a
pass from P2 with his or her back to the basket at the left block. P1 pivots, shoots, and rebounds his or her shot.
After P2 passes, P2 sprints to the baseline, and completes the same drill as P1. Form Shooting; Section 5B
Oiler Shooting Drill (right baseline): Four players form a line at the three-point line on the right baseline; Player 1
(P1) does not have a ball, but the others do. P1 sprints to the basket, stops with head under the basket, pivots, and
runs toward the line. P1 receives a pass from P2 with his or her back to the basket 8-10 feet from the basket. P1
pivots, shoots, and rebounds his or her shot. After P2 passes, P2 sprints to the baseline, and completes the same drill
as P1. Form Shooting; Section 6B
Oiler Shooting Drill (left baseline): Four players form a line at the three-point line on the left baseline; Player 1
(P1) does not have a ball, but the others do. P1 sprints to the basket, stops with head under the basket, pivots, and
runs toward the line. P1 receives a pass from P2 with his or her back to the basket 8-10 feet from the basket. P1
pivots, shoots, and rebounds his or her shot. After P2 passes, P2 sprints to the baseline, and completes the same drill
as P1. Form Shooting; Section 6B
Phase 2 Movement
Partner Shooting Drill: Player 1 (P1) passes to P2 and closes out. P2 shoots and rebounds his or her shot. P1
contests the shot and relocates, continuously moving. P2 passes to P1 and contests. Shoot 10-15 feet from the
basket. Make 10 as a pair. Catch-and-Shoot; Section C
Partner Shooting Drill (three-pointers): Player 1 (P1) passes to P2 and closes out. P2 shoots and rebounds his or
her shot. P1 contests the shot and relocates, continuously moving. P2 passes to P1 and contests. Shoot threepointers.
Make 10 as a pair. Catch-and-Shoot; Section E
Sooner Fast Break Shooting Drill (right side): Five players form a line at the free throw line, facing half-court.
Players 2, 3, and 4 have balls. P1 sprints to half-court, cuts to the right sideline at a 45-degree angle, touches the
sideline, and cuts toward the basket at a 45-degree angle. P2 passes to P1 about 10-15 feet from the basket, and
sprints to half-court. P1 shoots, rebounds, and returns to the end of the line. Catch-and-Shoot; Sections 4C
Sooner Fast Break Shooting Drill (left side): Five players form a line at the free throw line, facing half-court.
Players 2, 3, and 4 have balls. P1 sprints to half-court, cuts to the left sideline at a 45-degree angle, touches the
sideline, and cuts toward the basket at a 45-degree angle. P2 passes to P1 about 10-15 feet from the basket, and
sprints to half-court. P1 shoots, rebounds, and returns to the end of the line. Catch-and-Shoot; Sections 5C
Sooner Fast Break Three-Point Shooting Drill (right side): Five players form a line at the free throw line, facing
half-court. Players 2, 3, and 4 have balls. P1 sprints to half-court, cuts to the right sideline at a 45-degree angle,
touches the sideline, and cuts toward the basket at a 45-degree angle. P2 passes to P1 outside the three-point line,
and sprints to half-court. P1 shoots, rebounds, and returns to the end of the line. Catch-and-Shoot; Sections 4E
Sooner Fast Break Three-Point Shooting Drill (left side): Five players form a line at the free throw line, facing
half-court. Players 2, 3, and 4 have balls. P1 sprints to half-court, cuts to the left sideline at a 45-degree angle,
touches the sideline, and cuts toward the basket at a 45-degree angle. P2 passes to P1 outside the three-point line,
and sprints to half-court. P1 shoots, rebounds, and returns to the end of the line. Catch-and-Shoot; Sections 5E
Oiler Kick-out Shooting Drill (right wing): Four players form a line at the top of the key and a fifth player (P1)
starts on the right wing. First person in line (P2) passes to P1 and cuts to the ball-side low block. P1 passes to P2 and
relocates to the corner. P2 passes to P1 who catches and shoots. P2 cuts to be the right wing and receives the pass
from P3, while P1 retrieves his or her rebound and returns to the end of the line. Catch-and-Shoot; Sections 6E
Oiler Kick-out Shooting Drill (left wing): Four players form a line at the top of the key and a fifth player (P1)
starts on the left wing. First person in line (P2) passes to P1 and cuts to the ball-side low block. P1 passes to P2 and
relocates to the corner. P2 passes to P1 who catches and shoots. P2 cuts to be the left wing and receives the pass
from P3, while P1 retrieves his or her rebound and returns to the end of the line. Catch-and-Shoot; Sections 7E
Oiler Shooting Drill (alternating curls): Five players form a line at the top of the key; Player 1 (P1) does not have
a ball, but the others do. P1 sprints to the baseline, hockey stops, and curls toward the right wing. P1 receives a pass
from P2 about 10-15 feet from the basket, shoots, and rebounds his or her own shot. After P2 passes, P2 sprints to
the baseline, hockey stops, and curls toward the left wing. Catch-and-Shoot; Section C
Oiler Shooting Drill (alternating flares): Five players form a line at the top of the key; Player 1 (P1) does not have
a ball, but the others do. P1 sprints to the baseline, hockey stops, and begins to curl toward the right wing. P1 stops
his or her curl and flares to the right corner. P1 receives an overheard pass from P2 about 10-15 feet from the basket
on the baseline, shoots, and rebounds his or her own shot. After P2 passes, P2 sprints to the baseline, hockey stops,
and begins to curl toward the left wing. P2 stops his or her curl and flares to the left corner. Catch-and-Shoot;
Section C
Oiler Shooting Drill (alternating three-point curls): Five players form a line at the top of the key; Player 1 (P1)
does not have a ball, but the others do. P1 sprints to the baseline, hockey stops, and curls toward the right wing. P1
receives a pass from P2 outside the three-point line on the right wing, shoots, and rebounds his or her own shot.
After P2 passes, P2 sprints to the baseline, hockey stops, and curls outside the three-point line on the left wing.
Catch-and-Shoot; Section E
Oiler Shooting Drill (alternating three-point flares): Five players form a line at the top of the key; Player 1 (P1)
does not have a ball, but the others do. P1 sprints to the baseline, hockey stops, and begins to curl toward the right
wing. P1 stops his or her curl and flares to the right corner outside the three-point line. P1 receives an overheard pass
from P2, shoots, and rebounds his or her own shot. After P2 passes, P2 sprints to the baseline, hockey stops, and
begins to curl toward the left wing. P2 stops his or her curl and flares to the left corner outside the three-point line.
Catch-and-Shoot; Section E
Team Corner Curls Shooting Drill (right side): Form one line at the left elbow and one line in the right corner. P1
curls from the right corner to the right elbow, catches, shoots, and rebounds own shot. Passer and shooter switch
lines. Catch-and-Shoot; Section 2C
Team Corner Curls Shooting Drill (left side): Form one line at the right elbow and one line in the left corner. P1
curls from the right corner to the right elbow, catches, shoots, and rebounds own shot. Passer and shooter switch
lines. Catch-and-Shoot; Section 3C
Baseline to Elbow Shooting Drill (right side): Player 1 shoots, P2 passes, and P3 rebounds. Use two balls. P1
starts on the right baseline, and P2 starts at the left elbow. P1 cuts to the right elbow, receives the pass from P2, and
shoots. After passing, P2 receives the second ball from P3. After passing to P2, P3 rebounds the first shot. After
shooting, P1 cuts to the baseline about 15-feet from the basket, receives the pass from P2, and shoots. Make 6 shots
and rotate positions. Catch-and-Shoot; Section C
Baseline to Elbow Shooting Drill (left side): Player 1 shoots, P2 passes, and P3 rebounds. Use two balls. P1 starts
on the left baseline, and P2 starts at the right elbow. P1 cuts to the left elbow, receives the pass from P2, and shoots.
After passing, P2 receives the second ball from P3. After passing to P2, P3 rebounds the first shot. After shooting,
P1 cuts to the baseline about 15-feet from the basket, receives the pass from P2, and shoots. Make 6 shots and rotate
positions. Catch-and-Shoot; Section C
Baseline to Elbow Three-Point Shooting Drill (right side): Player 1 shoots, P2 passes, and P3 rebounds. Use two
balls. P1 starts on the right baseline outside the three-point line, and P2 starts at the top of the key. P1 cuts to the 45-
degree angle outside the three-point line, receives the pass from P2, and shoots. After passing, P2 receives the
second ball from P3. After passing to P2, P3 rebounds the first shot. After shooting, P1 cuts to the baseline outside
the three-point line, receives the pass from P2, and shoots. Make 6 shots and rotate positions. Catch-and-Shoot;
Section E
Baseline to Elbow Three-Point Shooting Drill (left side): Player 1 shoots, P2 passes, and P3 rebounds. Use two
balls. P1 starts on the left baseline outside the three-point line, and P2 starts at the top of the key. P1 cuts to the 45-
degree angle outside the three-point line, receives the pass from P2, and shoots. After passing, P2 receives the
second ball from P3. After passing to P2, P3 rebounds the first shot. After shooting, P1 cuts to the baseline outside
the three-point line, receives the pass from P2, and shoots. Make 6 shots and rotate positions. Catch-and-Shoot;
Section E
Baseline to Baseline Shooting Drill: Player 1 shoots, P2 passes, and P3 rebounds. Use two balls. P1 starts on the
right baseline, and P2 starts at the free-throw line. P1 cuts to the left baseline about 15-feet from the basket, receives
the pass from P2, and shoots. After passing, P2 receives the second ball from P3. After passing to P2, P3 rebounds
the first shot. After shooting, P1 cuts to the right baseline, receives the pass from P2, and shoots. Make 6 shots and
rotate positions. Catch-and-Shoot; Section C
Baseline to Baseline Three-Point Shooting Drill: Player 1 shoots, P2 passes, and P3 rebounds. Use two balls. P1
starts on the right baseline, and P2 starts at the free-throw line. P1 cuts to the left baseline outside the three-point
line, receives the pass from P2, and shoots. After passing, P2 receives the second ball from P3. After passing to P2,
P3 rebounds the first shot. After shooting, P1 cuts to the right baseline, receives the pass from P2, and shoots. Make
6 shots and rotate positions. Catch-and-Shoot; Section E
String Shooting Drill - Flare (right): Line 1 (L1) starts at the top of the key with balls; L2 starts on the right wing
outside the three-point line. P1 passes to P2. P2 catches and dribbles middle into the three-second area. P2 jump
stops and passes to P1. On the dribble penetration, P1 flares away from the dribbler to the left wing outside the
three-point line. P2 rebounds, and P1 and P2 switch lines. Catch-and-Shoot; Sections 3E
String Shooting Drill - Follow (right): Line 1 (L1) starts at the top of the key with balls; L2 starts on the right wing
outside the three-point line. P1 passes to P2. P2 catches and dribbles toward the baseline. P2 jump stops, pivots on
his or her outside foot, and passes to P1. On the dribble penetration, P1 follows the dribbler to the right wing outside
the three-point line. P2 rebounds, and P1 and P2 switch lines. Catch-and-Shoot; Section 4E
String Shooting Drill - Flare (left): Line 1 (L1) starts at the top of the key with balls; L2 starts on the left wing
outside the three-point line. P1 passes to P2. P2 catches and dribbles middle into the three-second area. P2 jump
stops and passes to P1. On the dribble penetration, P1 flares away from the dribbler to the right wing outside the
three-point line. P2 rebounds, and P1 and P2 switch lines. Catch-and-Shoot; Sections 2E
String Shooting Drill - Follow (left): Line 1 (L1) starts at the top of the key with balls; L2 starts on the left wing
outside the three-point line. P1 passes to P2. P2 catches and dribbles toward the baseline. P2 jump stops, pivots on
his or her outside foot, and passes to P1. On the dribble penetration, P1 follows the dribbler to the left wing outside
the three-point line. P2 rebounds, and P1 and P2 switch lines. Catch-and-Shoot; Section 5E
3-Line String Shooting Drill: Form three lines outside the three-point line: One line on each wing, and a line at the
top of the key with balls. P1 starts with the ball and passes to the first person in either line. P2 receives the pass and
dribble penetrates; he or she can attack to the baseline side or the middle. P1 and P3 move in relation to the
penetration; P1 either flares or follows, depending on the direction of P2’s drive, and P3 drifts to the baseline corner.
P2 passes out to P1 or P3. When P2 penetrates toward the baseline, meaning that P1 follows and P1 and P3 are on
opposite sides of the court, whomever receives the pass from P2 shoots. When P2 penetrates to the middle, and P1
flares to the same side of the court as P3, whomever receives the pass from P2 has the choice to shoot or make the
extra pass to the other player. Shooter follows his or her shot, and each player switches lines. Catch-and-Shoot;
Section E
Husky 35 Shooting Drill: Form three lines at half-court with two balls in the middle line. P1 in the middle line
passes to the first person (P2) in one of the wing lines, and P2 passes to the other wing (P3). P3 catches outside the
three-point line and shoots. A made shot is worth 3 points. When a shot is missed, rebounded in the air, and finished
with a layup, the team receives 1 point. When a missed shot hits the ground, the score re-sets to zero. The next group
starts on the shot. Goal is 35 points in 2 minutes. Catch-and-Shoot, Section E (track first shot attempts on a
possession only)
Santa Cruz Shooting Drill (mid-range): Form three-person teams; P1 starts at half-court; P2 and P3 start on
opposite baselines, each with a ball. P1 sprints toward P2, receives the pass, shoots and rebounds. P2 passes to P1
and sprints toward P3. Shoot mid-range shots, between 10 and 15 feet from the basket. Winner is the first team to
make 18 shots. Catch-and-Shoot; Section C
Santa Cruz Shooting Drill (three-point range): Form three-person teams; P1 starts at half-court; P2 and P3 start
on opposite baselines, each with a ball. P1 sprints toward P2, receives the pass outside the three-point line, shoots
and rebounds. P2 passes to P1 and sprints toward P3. Winner is the first team to make 18 shots. Catch-and-Shoot;
Section E
Phase 3 Dribble
Partner Off-The-Dribble Shooting Drill (short range): Player 1 starts with the ball under the basket, and P2 starts
outside the three-point line. P1 passes to P2 and closes out. P2 reads the closeout and attacks with 1-2 dribbles to get
inside 10 feet from the basket. P2 shoots and rebounds his or her shot. P1 closes out and relocates, continuously
moving. P2 passes to P1 and closes out. Shoot short jump shots. Make 10 as a pair. Off-the-Dribble; Section B
Partner Off-The-Dribble Shooting Drill (mid range): Player 1 starts with the ball under the basket, and P2 starts
outside the three-point line. P1 passes to P2 and closes out. P2 reads the closeout and attacks with 1-2 dribbles to get
10-15 feet from the basket. P2 shoots and rebounds his or her shot. P1 closes out and relocates, continuously
moving. P2 passes to P1 and closes out. Shoot mid-range jump shots. Make 10 as a pair. Off-the-Dribble; Section C
Partner Off-The-Dribble Shooting Drill (three-pointers): Player 1 starts with the ball under the basket, and P2
starts outside the three-point line. P1 passes to P2 and closes out. P2 reads the closeout and sidesteps the closeout
with 1 dribble to create space to shoot a three-pointer. P2 shoots and rebounds his or her shot. P1 closes out and
relocates, continuously moving. P2 passes to P1 and closes out. Shoot three-pointers. Make 10 as a pair. Off-the-
Dribble; Section E
Santa Cruz Off-the-Dribble Shooting Drill (mid-range): Form three-person teams; P1 starts at half-court; P2 and
P3 start on opposite baselines, each with a ball. P1 sprints toward P2, receives the pass outside the three-point line,
jump stops, attacks with 1-2 dribbles, stops, shoots, and rebounds. P2 passes to P1 and sprints toward P3. Shoot
mid-range shots, between 10 and 15 feet from the basket. Winner is the first team to make 18 shots. Off-the-Dribble;
Section C
Santa Cruz Off-the-Dribble Shooting Drill (three-point range): Form three-person teams; P1 starts at half-court;
P2 and P3 start on opposite baselines, each with a ball. P1 sprints toward P2, receives the pass just inside the halfcourt
line, attacks with 1-2 dribbles, stops beyond the three-point line, shoots, and rebounds. P2 passes to P1 and
sprints toward P3. Winner is the first team to make 18 shots. Off-the-Dribble; Section E
Team Corner Curl and Crossover Drive Shooting Drill (right side): Form one line in the right corner (L1) and
one line at the left elbow with balls. P1 curls to the right elbow, catches, crossover steps, and dribbles once with his
or her right hand into a shot. P1 rebounds own shot, and P1 and P2 switch lines. Off-the-Dribble; Section 2B
Team Corner Curl and Run-Through Shooting Drill (right side): Form one line in the right corner (L1) and one
line at the left elbow with balls. P1 curls to the right elbow, catches, runs through the catch (no stopping or triple
threat), uses one left-handed dribble to separate, and shoots. P1 rebounds own shot, and P1 and P2 switch lines. Offthe-
Dribble, 1C
Team Corner Curl and Crossover Drive Shooting Drill (left side): Form one line in the left corner (L1) and one
line at the right elbow with balls. P1 curls to the left elbow, catches, crossover steps, and dribbles once with his or
her left hand into a shot. P1 rebounds own shot, and P1 and P2 switch lines. Off-the-Dribble; Section 3B
Team Corner Curl and Run-Through Shooting Drill (left side): Form one line in the left corner (L1) and one line
at the right elbow with balls. P1 curls to the left elbow, catches, runs through the catch (no stopping or triple threat),
uses one right-handed dribble to separate, and shoots. P1 rebounds own shot, and P1 and P2 switch lines. Off-the-
Dribble, 1C
Phase 4 Game Movement
3-Person Partner String Shooting Drill: Player 1 (P1) starts under the basket with the ball, and P2 and P3 stand
outside the three-point line. P1 passes to P2 and sprints to take away the shot and force dribble penetration. P2
attacks, and P3 moves in relation to the dribble to create a passing lane; P3 may follow, flare, loop, drift to the
corner, or spot up in the corner or at the 45-degree angle, depending on his or her starting position and the direction
of P2’s dribble penetration. P2 passes to P3 and follows his or her pass to close out; P3 has the choice to shoot or
drive. When P3 shoots, he or she follows his or her shot, rebounds, and passes out to one of the other two players to
begin the next repetition (taking P1’s position). When P3 attacks, P1 moves in relation to the dribble to create a
passing lane. Continue until a shot is attempted. Shooter rebounds, passes out to the three-point line, and closes out
to begin the next repetition. Make 12 shots. Shoot only catch-and-shoot shots; no shots off the dribble. Shots should
be catch-and-shoot three-pointers unless skill level or strength dictates moving the players closer to the basket.
Catch-and-Shoot; Section E
4-Person Partner String Shooting Drill: Player 1 (P1) starts under the basket with the ball, and P2, P3, and P4
stand outside the three-point line. P1 passes to P2 and sprints to take away the shot and force dribble penetration. P2
attacks, and P3 and P4 move in relation to the dribble to create a passing lane; players may follow, flare, loop, drift
to the corner, or spot up in the corner or at the 45-degree angle, depending on their starting position and the direction
of P2’s dribble penetration. P2 passes to P3 or P4 and follows his or her pass to close out; P3 or P4 has the choice to
shoot or drive. When P3 shoots, he or she follows his or her shot, rebounds, and passes out to one of the other three
players to begin the next repetition (taking P1’s position). When P3 attacks, P1 and P4 move in relation to the
dribble to create a passing lane. Continue until a shot is attempted. Shooter rebounds, passes out to the three-point
line, and closes out to begin the next repetition. Make 12 shots. Shoot only catch-and-shoot shots; no shots off the
dribble. Shots should be catch-and-shoot three-pointers unless skill level or strength dictates moving the players
closer to the basket. Catch-and-Shoot; Section E
5-Person Partner String Shooting Drill: Two players (D1 and D2) start inside the three-second area with one ball.
Three offensive players (O1, O2, and O3) start outside the three-point line. D1 passes to O1 and follows his or her
pass to close out to the ball. O1 has the choice to shoot or attack the close out (If O1 shoots, O1 and D1 switch on
the next possession). When O1 attacks the closeout, O2 and O3 move in relation to the dribble to create a passing
lane; players may follow, flare, loop, drift to the corner, or spot up in the corner or at the 45-degree angle, depending
on their starting point and the direction of O1’s dribble penetration. O1 passes to O2 who has the choice to shoot or
attack the closeout; D1 or D2 closes out to contest a shot. If O2 shoots, O1 and O2 (last passer and shooter) move to
D1 and D2, and D1 and D2 join O3 on offense. When O2 attacks the closeout, O1 and O3 move in relation to the
dribble, and O2 passes to O1 or O3. D1 or D2 close out. Offense continues to penetrate and kick until it shoots an
open shot; defense continues to close out until the offense shoots. The last passer and the shooter follow the shot,
rebound, and become the next defenders; once the shot is attempted, the defenders spread out to the three-point line
and move to offense. Shoot only catch-and-shoot shots; no shots off the dribble. Shots should be catch-and-shoot
three-pointers unless skill level or strength dictates moving the players closer to the basket. Catch-and-Shoot;
Section E
6-Person Closeout Shooting Game: Four offensive players stand outside the three-point line - two players to the
right side of the court (R1, R2), and two players to the left side (L1, L2) - and two defensive players (D1, D2) stand
inside the three-second area. The coach starts with the ball at the top of the key. When the coach passes, the ball is
live. The player who receives the pass from the coach is the only player who is allowed to dribble. When the pass
goes to R1 or R2, the other player is ineligible for the possession, and L1 and L2 are live. For example, R1 receives
the pass. R1 has the option of shooting, driving, or passing to L1 or L2. When R1 passes to L1 or L2, the player has
the option to shoot or pass. For example, R1 passes to L1, and L1 can shoot or pass to L2. The two defenders
attempt to prevent the three offensive players from scoring. Offense gets one shot to score. When offense scores, the
four offensive players remain in the same spots, and the two defenders remain on defense. Every offensive player
who touched the ball on the possession receives 1 point; when R1 receives the pass from the coach, shoots, and
scores, only R1 receives a point. When R1 drives and passes to L1 who passes to L2 who makes the shot, R1, L1,
and L2 receive 1 point each. When the defense captures the ball through a steal or rebound, the first defender to
close out on the coach’s pass moves to offense, and the player who received the coach’s pass moves to defense. Play
to 5 baskets. Catch-and-Shoot; Section E
9-Person Closeout Shooting Game: Six offensive players stand outside the three-point line - three players to the
right side of the court (R1, R2, R3), and three players to the left side (L1, L2, L3) - and three defensive players (D1,
D2, D3) stand inside the three-second area. The coach starts with the ball at the top of the key. When the coach
passes, the ball is live. The player who receives the pass from the coach is the only player who is allowed to dribble.
When the pass goes to R1, R2, or R3, the other two players become ineligible for the possession, and L1, L2, and L3
are live. For example, R1 receives the pass. R1 has the option of shooting, driving, or passing to L1, L2, or L3.
When R1 passes to L1, L2, or L3, the player has the option to shoot or pass. For example, R1 passes to L1, and L1
can shoot or pass to L2 or L3. The three defensive players attempt to prevent the four offensive players from
scoring. Offense gets one shot to score. When offense scores, the six offensive players remain in the same spots, and
the three defenders remain on defense. Every offensive player who touched the ball on the possession receives 1
point; when R1 receives the pass from the coach, shoots, and scores, only R1 receives a point. When R1 drives and
passes to L1 who passes to L2 who passes to L3 who makes the shot, R1, L1, L2, and L3 receive one point each.
When the defense captures the ball through a steal or rebound, the first defender to close out on the coach’s pass
moves to offense, and the player who received the coach’s pass moves to defense. Play to 5 baskets. Catch-and-
Shoot; Section E
Utes' Tight Curl Shooting Drill (right side): Form three lines: Line 1 (L1) outside the three-point above the left
elbow; L2 outside the three-point above the right elbow; and L3 outside the three-point on the right wing. Ball starts
with the first player in Line 2 (P2). P2 passes to P1 and moves to set a screen for P3. P3 sets up the screen and curls
tight around the screen into the three-second area. P1 passes to P3 for the shot and follows his or her pass to get the
rebound. P3 goes to L1; P1 rebounds and takes the ball to L2; and P2 goes to L3. Catch-and-Shoot; Section 2C
Utes' Tight Curl Shooting Drill (left side): Form three lines: Line 1 (L1) outside the three-point above the right
elbow; L2 outside the three-point above the left elbow; and L3 outside the three-point on the left wing. Ball starts
with the first player in Line 2 (P2). P2 passes to P1 and moves to set a screen for P3. P3 sets up the screen and curls
tight around the screen into the three-second area. P1 passes to P3 for the shot and follows his or her pass to get the
rebound. P3 goes to L1; P1 rebounds and takes the ball to L2; and P2 goes to L3. Catch-and-Shoot; Section 3C
Utes' Loose Curl Shooting Drill (right side): Form three lines: Line 1 (L1) outside the three-point above the left
elbow; L2 outside the three-point above the right elbow; and L3 outside the three-point on the right wing. Ball starts
with the first player in Line 2 (P2). P2 passes to P1 and moves to set a screen for P3. P3 sets up the screen and curls
around the screen between the elbow and the three-point line. P1 passes to P3 for the shot and follows his or her pass
to get the rebound. P3 goes to L1; P1 rebounds and takes the ball to L2; and P2 goes to L3. Catch-and-Shoot;
Section 2D
Utes' Loose Curl Shooting Drill (left side): Form three lines: Line 1 (L1) outside the three-point above the right
elbow; L2 outside the three-point above the left elbow; and L3 outside the three-point on the left wing. Ball starts
with the first player in Line 2 (P2). P2 passes to P1 and moves to set a screen for P3. P3 sets up the screen and curls
around the screen between the elbow and the three-point line. P1 passes to P3 for the shot and follows his or her pass
to get the rebound. P3 goes to L1; P1 rebounds and takes the ball to L2; and P2 goes to L3. Catch-and-Shoot;
Section 3D
Utes' Flare Shooting Drill (right side): Form three lines: Line 1 (L1) outside the three-point above the left elbow;
L2 outside the three-point above the right elbow; and L3 outside the three-point on the right wing. Ball starts with
the first player in Line 2 (P2). P2 passes to P1 and moves to set a screen for P3. P3 sets up the screen and flares
toward the baseline. P1 passes to P3 for the shot and follows his or her pass to get the rebound. P3 goes to L1; P1
rebounds and takes the ball to L2; and P2 goes to L3. Catch-and-Shoot; Section 6D
Utes' Flare Shooting Drill (left side): Form three lines: Line 1 (L1) outside the three-point above the right elbow;
L2 outside the three-point above the left elbow; and L3 outside the three-point on the left wing. Ball starts with the
first player in Line 2 (P2). P2 passes to P1 and moves to set a screen for P3. P3 sets up the screen and flares toward
the baseline. P1 passes to P3 for the shot and follows his or her pass to get the rebound. P3 goes to L1; P1 rebounds
and takes the ball to L2; and P2 goes to L3. Catch-and-Shoot; Section 7D
Utes' Three-Point Curl Shooting Drill (right side): Form three lines: Line 1 (L1) outside the three-point above the
left elbow; L2 outside the three-point above the right elbow; and L3 outside the three-point on the right wing. Ball
starts with the first player in Line 2 (P2). P2 passes to P1 and moves to set a screen for P3. P3 sets up the screen and
curls around the screen beyond the three-point line. P1 passes to P3 for the shot and follows his or her pass to get the
rebound. P3 goes to L1; P1 rebounds and takes the ball to L2; and P2 goes to L3. Catch-and-Shoot; Section 2E
Utes' Three-Point Curl Shooting Drill (left side): Form three lines: Line 1 (L1) outside the three-point above the
right elbow; L2 outside the three-point above the left elbow; and L3 outside the three-point on the left wing. Ball
starts with the first player in Line 2 (P2). P2 passes to P1 and moves to set a screen for P3. P3 sets up the screen and
curls around the screen beyond the three-point line. P1 passes to P3 for the shot and follows his or her pass to get the
rebound. P3 goes to L1; P1 rebounds and takes the ball to L2; and P2 goes to L3. Catch-and-Shoot; Section 3E
Utes' Three-Point Flare Shooting Drill (right side): Form three lines: Line 1 (L1) outside the three-point above
the left elbow; L2 outside the three-point above the right elbow; and L3 outside the three-point on the right wing.
Ball starts with the first player in Line 2 (P2). P2 passes to P1 and moves to set a screen for P3. P3 sets up the screen
and flares toward the baseline beyond the three-point line. P1 passes to P3 for the shot and follows his or her pass to
get the rebound. P3 goes to L1; P1 rebounds and takes the ball to L2; and P2 goes to L3. Catch-and-Shoot; Section
6E
Utes' Three-Point Flare Shooting Drill (left side): Form three lines: Line 1 (L1) outside the three-point above the
right elbow; L2 outside the three-point above the left elbow; and L3 outside the three-point on the left wing. Ball
starts with the first player in Line 2 (P2). P2 passes to P1 and moves to set a screen for P3. P3 sets up the screen and
flares toward the baseline beyond the three-point line. P1 passes to P3 for the shot and follows his or her pass to get
the rebound. P3 goes to L1; P1 rebounds and takes the ball to L2; and P2 goes to L3. Catch-and-Shoot; Section 7E
Utes' Two-Ball Shooting Drill (right side): Form four lines: Line 1 (L1) outside the three-point above the left
elbow; L2 outside the three-point above the right elbow; L3 outside the three-point on the right wing; and L4 to the
outside of L1. One ball starts with the first player in Line 2 (P2), and first player in L4 (P4) has the second ball. P2
passes to P1 and moves to set a screen for P3. P3 sets up the screen and flares, curls tight, curls loose, or cuts
backdoor. P1 passes to P3 for the shot and follows his or her pass to get the rebound. After P3 cuts, P2 cuts opposite.
When P3 cuts toward the basket (backdoor or tight curl), P2 pops; when P3 cuts away from the basket (loose curl,
flare), P2 rolls to the basket. After P1 passes to P3, P4 passes to P2 who shoots. P3 rebounds P2’s shot and goes to
L4; P1 rebounds P3’s shot and goes to L2; and P2 goes to L3. P4 goes to L1. Catch-and-Shoot
Utes' Two-Ball Shooting Drill (left side): Form four lines: Line 1 (L1) outside the three-point above the right
elbow; L2 outside the three-point above the left elbow; L3 outside the three-point on the left wing; and L4 to the
outside of L1. One ball starts with the first player in Line 2 (P2), and first player in L4 (P4) has the second ball. P2
passes to P1 and moves to set a screen for P3. P3 sets up the screen and flares, curls tight, curls loose, or cuts
backdoor. P1 passes to P3 for the shot and follows his or her pass to get the rebound. After P3 cuts, P2 cuts opposite.
When P3 cuts toward the basket (backdoor or tight curl), P2 pops; when P3 cuts away from the basket (loose curl,
flare), P2 rolls to the basket. After P1 passes to P3, P4 passes to P2 who shoots. P3 rebounds P2’s shot and goes to
L4; P1 rebounds P3’s shot and goes to L2; and P2 goes to L3. P4 goes to L1. Catch-and-Shoot
Phase 5 Pro Shots
1v1 Shooting Drill: Start a step inside the top of the key. Offensive player must stay within the half circle above the
free throw line, create space and score. Defense defends without fouling. Make it, take it - play to three.
1v1 Closeout: Form a line on the left wing beyond the three-point line with the ball (P1). P2 starts in the middle of
the three-second area as the defender, and P3 starts on the right wing beyond the three-point line as the offensive
player. P1 skips the ball to P3 who shoots or attacks. On the pass, P2 closes out to P3 and plays defense. One shot
only; play until the offense shoots or the defense steals the ball. P1 moves to P2; P2 moves to P3; and P1 rebounds
and goes to the end of the line. To make it more competitive, when the offense scores, it stays on offense and
defense goes to the end of the line. Also, play out the possession until the offense scores or the defense gets a
rebound or steal. To encourage more outside shooting, play by 2s and 3s. To give players more time to shoot,
increase the distance that the defender must cover. To encourage driving, reduce the distance the defender must
cover. To require shooting, permit the offense to score only outside of the three-second area.
Utes' 2v2 Shooting Drill: Form three lines: Line 1 (L1) outside the three-point above the left elbow; L2 outside the
three-point on the left wing; and L3 outside the three-point above the right elbow. D1 defends O1, and D2 defends
O2. Ball starts with the first player in Line 1 (O1). O1 passes to O3, and cuts to set a screen for O2. O2 sets up the
screen and makes the appropriate cut (flare, tight curl, loose curl, or backdoor) based on the defense. O1 cuts
opposite O2. O3 passes to the open player. Once O3 passes, O1 and O2 each have one dribble and one pass that they
can use to score. The objective is to use the screen correctly to create an immediate shot, but if the immediate catch
and shoot is unavailable, each player has one pass and one dribble to work together to score. After the possession is
completed, O1 becomes D1; D1 becomes O2; O2 becomes D2; D2 becomes O3; and O3 becomes O1.
